---
layout: post
title: ROMVLVS v0.0.3 release
---

Hey!

Thanks very much for checking out this first playable release of ROMVLVS, 
a simulator game!

It’s currently in alpha stage (v0.0.3) so lots of bugs have to be ironed 
out and features added. If you see a bug or think of a feature, don’t 
hesitate to contact me!

## To run in Linux:

- Download the following file: https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BzJPRrTQDddjOVJxbWI4ek9uR0k/view?usp=sharing
- Unzip downloaded file
- Double click ‘run’ in the directory of the unzipped files
- In the popup that appears, click 'Execute’
- To exit the game, This was tested successfully in Lubuntu, it might work 
for other Linux distros as well.

**As of now, no other operating systems are supported.**

## Introduction

ROMVLVS is a civilization simulation game, merging the low level 
modularity of SimCity with the high level strategy of games like 
Civilization. There are no centralized elements: you don’t found a city, 
a city emerges from large populations.

Each tile roughly represents an area of 10x10m.

There are no explicit game objectives. Population grows automatically at 
the end of every turn but will level off quite soon unless you build 
buildings.

## Game mechanics

Population *on a tile* grows when it’s nearby water. It levels off if there 
are too many people on a tile.

Population *disperses to neighboring* tiles when there are more than 5 
people on a tile. The game currently works with decimal numbers, make of 
that what you will. Materials like food and wood distribute in the same 
manner.

Without buildings, you’re essentially growing a hunter-gatherer society. 
They don’t produce excess food or materials and are in touch with nature.

## Buildings

The buildings you can build to advance your civilization are: 
- Farm - creates surplus food. Costs population 
- Logger - creates surplus wood. Costs population 
- Settlement - increases population. Costs wood 
- Wall - does nothing for now, in the future will protect against enemies. Costs wood

## Future improvemens

I want to make the following improvements: 
- Don’t disperse materials to an unpopulated tile 
- Add enemies 
- Add a toggleable “heatmap” so you can clearly see the distribution of materials 
- Add roads

*Please let me know if you think of any cool features that belong on this list!*

